I hope you feel really proud
of how far you've come!
You may remember that
earlier in this program,
we discussed a few security
roles in the industry.
Now, we'll explore
three of those roles.
We'll start with
security analyst.
Security analyst is typically
an entry-level role that
might interest you
as you prepare
to enter the security field.
The role generally focuses on
monitoring networks
for security breaches,
developing strategies to
help secure an organization,
and even researching
IT security trends.
In previous courses,
we discussed
log monitoring and SIEM tools.
Having a solid foundational
understanding of how to
use those tools will certainly
be useful in this role.
Another role that
might interest you
is information security analyst.
This role generally focuses on
creating plans and implementing
security measures to protect
organizations'
networks and systems.
Earlier in the program,
you learned about controls
and frameworks that can
be used to develop security
plans and procedures,
as well as how to use SIEMs and
packet sniffers to
identify risks.
That knowledge will
be beneficial when
it comes to developing plans and
determining the best
tools to strengthen
an organization's
security posture.
Finally, we'll explore
the security operations
center analyst role.
Security operations
center analyst,
also known as a SOC analyst,
is another role you
might find exciting.
This role generally focuses on
ensuring security
incidents are handled
rapidly and efficiently by
following established
policies and procedures.
Earlier in this program,
we discussed security
playbooks and
how they are unique
to each organization.
We also covered
the importance of
being able to follow
the processes
outlined in playbooks to
respond to security
events or incidents.
That knowledge will
certainly help you stand
out as a potential
candidate for this role.
There are many more job roles
that you may be interested in.
A great way to find
more of these roles is
to create an account
on various job sites
and search for cybersecurity
positions.
A few well-known job sites in
the United States and
internationally are ZipRecruiter,
Indeed, and Monster Jobs.
Each of these sites
have hundreds of
open job listings with roles,
responsibilities,
and skill set requirements
posted under the job title.
How exciting is it that
we're now discussing
jobs and sites that you
can use to apply for them!?
It's important that
you do your research
before applying to any position.
Gather plenty of information
about the company,
the job role, as well as
required and preferred skills.
This will help prepare you
for a potential interview by
knowing exactly what the
employer is looking for
and how your skills
align with the
employer's expectations.
This will also help you
align your own values
and passions with the
organization's mission and vision.
But before you can apply
for a security job,
it's important to create
a resume that will catch
an employer's attention.
Coming up, we'll discuss
the resume development
process in detail.